# Tock OT Notes 4/9/2020

Present:
- Brad Campbell (Chair), University of Virginia
- Phil Levis, Stanford
- Silvestrs Timofejevs, lowRISC
- Johnathan Van Why, Google
- Alistair Francis, Western Digital


## Updates
- Silvestrs: Working on a PR for conditional compilation. OT has two targets
  which differ very little, and this would allow the same board to compile for
  them.
- I started with a simple approach, now looking for feedback.
- Brad: One question is how much overhead is worth it when hardware differs in
  small ways. We don't currently have an approach for this, so your PR is pretty
  experimental. We've done the nested crates approach with the nRF, but that
  seems heavyweight for this application.
- Another question is should the config options be relatively fixed, or should
  it be easy for users to provide their own configuration settings?
- Silvestrs: For debugging, may be useful to set a custom frequency.
- Brad: I always worry about cfg options which can lead to a very complex code
  base, but here the values should at least be very clear since they are based
  in hardware. It is useful to have a default setting so that cargo tools will
  work even if there are no cfg options set.
- Silvestrs: Config files might be better for providing more structure.
- I'm still experimenting with Makefile-provided cfg features that get passed down.
- Brad: I agree on config files, but I think how things get set is still tricky
  because having too many different configuration methods can get confusing.
- Brad: Why the configurable baud rate?
- Silvestrs: I wasn't sure either, but it seems the developers use different
  baud rates on different platforms to get better performance on the FPGA.

## Oxide

- Phil: Oxide is stepping back from active Tock development.
- After learning more about Tock and evaluating their use cases, they don't see
  Tock's design as a good fit for their needs. And they don't want to try
  contort the project to their intended use case.
- Bryan did indicate that they do like the design of the kernel, and intend to
  still use it in some form.
- But the overhead and complexity of the syscall interface for libtock-rs is not
  needed in their design. They want to run everything in Rust, and want blocking
  operations closer to the kernel.

## DIFs

- Silvestrs: I have proof of concept, "hello world" style C DIF integration with
  Tock working.
- Brad: Excellent, I know that is an important goal.

## HMAC
- https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/1702
- Still in progress.
