# Tock OT Notes 4/30/2020

Present:
- Brad Campbell (Chair), University of Virginia
- Jon Flatley, Google
- Silvestrs Timofejevs, lowRISC
- Johnathan Van Why, Google
- Garret Kelly, Google
- Alistair Francis, Western Digital
- Phil Levis, Stanford


## Updates

- Silvestrs: Updated work on conditional compilation. Passes CI. Ready for
  review.
- Brad: Hopefully 1.5 will be merged today. Then can resume merging PRs.
- Alistair: Working on OT and apps on QEMU. Goal: automated testing of PRs with
  QEMU.
- Sent out updates to QEMU on mailing list.
  - Support for Ibex CLIC and UART, plus connecting those peripherals to the
    main chip.
- Garret: What does the maintenance look like for Ibex on QEMU? The chip is
  changing, which version should QEMU match?
- Alistair: UART is easy to keep up with any changes. Hopefully the CLIC becomes
  standards compliant and therefore can use the default version.
- Brad: Tested tock on Arty-e21 board, minor fixes needed but otherwise working
  as expected.

## PMP

- Silvestrs: Why remove the "power of 2" check in the PMP implementation?
- Alistair: That check is left over from the NAPOT implementation. With
  Top-of-Range now it is not longer needed.
- Garret: ToR for OT will require 32 byte alignment.
- Alistair: I think that is standards compliant.
- Brad: Using that as a default is probably fine, even if not required. Not a
  huge overhead.

- Phil: There might be alignment issues with memory protection more generally.
- ARM has a standard, but some chips implemented their own version.
- What is the outlook for PMP? Will we see a number of custom implementations?
- Garret: I would expect that SiFive would stick the spec.
- New RISC-V specs have been slow to be release, so I don't necessarily expect
  it to change any time soon.
- Alistair: Probably won't see a lot of custom implementations. Instead, there
  may be spec extensions (like for the core) where peripherals like the PMP can
  be customized but still standards compliant.
- Garret: Well, OT is looking to use a non-compliant version that has additional
  lock bits.
- Phil: ARM you have to buy IP, presents a barrier.
- Alistair: I think with RISC-V the trademark restriction would make it so a
  non-spec version couldn't be called "RISC-V".
- Garret: But the PMP is optional, so it could be a RISC-V core without a PMP,
  and instead has an "OTPMP" which is different.
- Garret: PMP currently too restrictive. Only 16 regions (8 effectively for
  ToR). Use 6 regions for secure boot, not enough remaining.
- Alistair: What about the extended PMP spec?
- Garret: Is that out?
- What happens with the hardware diversity?
- Brad: Probably have to just embrace it.
- Garret: Tock abstractions help.
- Brad: Tricky part is finding bugs twice.
- Phil: With variations in hardware there isn't much we can do.

## libtock-rs

- Johnathan: Not much change.

## OT PRs

- Phil: Are they ready, just waiting for 1.5?
- Alistair: Yes. Should be ready or close to ready.
- Phil: OK I can take a look.

## HMAC

- Phil: Key size issue. If variable key size, then setting the key must be
  asynchronous. To avoid that complexity, better to fix the size for now.
- But, certain implementations could use DMA (or something) to set the key, so
  this may still have to change.
