# Tock OT Notes 5/21/2020

Present:
- Brad Campbell (Chair), University of Virginia
- Jon Flatley, Google
- Silvestrs Timofejevs, lowRISC
- Johnathan Van Why, Google
- Alistair Francis, Western Digital
- Alphan Ulusoy, Google
- Vadim Sukhomlinov, Google

## Updates

- Jon: Have PRs ready for internal host-side emulation and testing for internal
  review. Working on roadmap towards v1.
- Plan to share with Tock in the next week or two.

- Alphan: PR for more efficient MPU config approved.
- Debug optional for processes generated more discussion. Will iterate.
- Also have question about disabling in the MPU.

- Silvestrs: PR for device configuration in progress.

- Brad: Fixed addresses TLV merged.

- Vadim: Working on a minimal process syscall shim, allowing for LTO of apps.
- Working on a system for storing known data about apps. No need to parse TBF
  headers every time.
- One goal is to make a very lightweight libtock-c app. Push more into the
  kernel or somehow share code.
- Jon: This may extend to process testing host side, if there are new load
  processes and create() functions.
- Brad: We used to do app setup in the kernel. But, we weren't sure if what we
  had implemented was general or not. Once Amit demonstrated we could do it all
  app side we switched to that since then we didn't have to answer the
  generality question.
- Vadim: Worried about code duplication.
- Also, we want to support vendor provided libraries in apps that access HW, are
  blocking, and written in C.
- Brad: We have discussed letting apps access hardware, but it never went
  anywhere. Difficult to provide useful fine-grained access control.
- Alistair: There is an I/O PMP separate from the main PMP in RISC-V. Just
  covers the address access space. Might be interesting to see how that could
  help in this case.

## Chomebook Use Case

- See slides.
- Vadim: If there is overlap or ongoing projects in these areas, let me know.

## PMP

- Alistair: Disable PMP not needed (is a no-op), want to support enhanced PMP
  that would apply to kernel as well.
- We are not currently checking the lock bits.
- Alphan: We also want to use some regions for the boot code.
- Alistair: Those are different lock bits, also need to check locked regions.
- Brad: Will continue discussion next week.
