Attending: Amit, Brad, Phil, Holly, Hudson, Johnathan, Brande, Pat, Jean-Luc

  * Updates: 10m
    * 1.3 release!
    * Brad: Has been working on ESP wifi chip working, picking back up again. Slow but steady process.
	    * Phil: Turns out Steve Clark put together a board with the ESP + SAM4D
    * Phil:
	    * Just synced Tock on Titan to 1.3. So Titan is up to speed with 1.3
			* UART HIL: Niklas gave a whole bunch of detailed comments on programming style, will look over carefully, probably tomorrow
		* Amit: Daniel Deluci has a port of 802.15.4 to the nRF52840
	* Issues for 1.4
		* Current list: https://github.com/tock/tock/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Arelease-blocker.
	* Testing for 1.4
		* Re-giggering our tests so they are more consistent. E.g. make them more consistent so it's easier to figure out what should happen with each
		* New tool! https://github.com/tock/tock-ci
			* Can flash apps for you
			* Then checks serial connections for particular string match
			* Current goal is to help with manual testing process
		* Johnathan:
			* Google have been putting together their own test suite to run
			* Don't have a public solution, but an internal solution that images hardware based on pub-sub of binary images
			* Phil: trade-offs between pub-sub vs. compiling on test machine?
				* Johnathan:
					* basically the test machine is ultimately fairly hand-designed, rather than a travis-CI type general hardware
					* Can a developer use this? E.g. I, as a developer, can run tests remotely without direct access to test hardware
