External Dependencies
=====================

<!-- npm i -g markdown-toc; markdown-toc -i ExternalDependencies.md -->

<!-- toc -->

- [Adding a dependency](#adding-a-dependency)
  * [Provide Important Functionality](#provide-important-functionality)
  * [Project maturity](#project-maturity)
  * [Limited dependencies](#limited-dependencies)
- [Dependency Tree](#dependency-tree)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Adding a dependency

External dependencies can be added to Tock on a case by case basis. Each
dependency will be reviewed for inclusion. Below is a general list of
requirements for adding a new external crate.

### Provide Important Functionality

The external crate must provide important functionality that couldn't
easily or realistically be provided by the Tock developers.

Examples of this include:

 * Crypto libraries
     * No one should write their own crypto library
 * Wireless protocols
     * Wireless implementations are difficult to get the correct timing
     * Wireless protocols are also very expensive to certify
 * Rust embedded HALs
     * For some platforms there are mature Rust Embedded HALs. This would take
       a long time for Tock developers to re-implement themselves.

### Project maturity

The external crate being added must be a mature project, with a high quality
of code. The project must be well regarded in the Rust community.

### Limited dependencies

The external crate should include only a few dependencies. The fewer
dependencies the crate introduces the more likely it is to be accepted.

## Dependency Tree

The Tock dependency tree can be generated by running the below command in the
top level of the Tock repo.

```shell
cargo tree | grep -v /tock
```

The below tree should be updated whenever a dependency change is made.

```
```
