doc/Getting_Started.md, before:

Tock Getting Started Guide
==========================

This covers how to get the toolchain setup on your platform to start using and
developing Tock.

## Requirements

1. [Rust](http://www.rust-lang.org/)
2. [rustup](https://rustup.rs/) to install Rust (version >= 1.11.0)
3. [arm-none-eabi toolchain](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads) (version >= 5.2)
4. Command line utilities: wget, sed, make, cmake

### Super Quick Setup

MacOS:
```
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
$ brew tap ARMmbed/homebrew-formulae && brew update && brew install arm-none-eabi-gcc
$ pip3 install tockloader
```

Ubuntu:
```
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa && sudo apt update && sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
$ pip3 install tockloader --user
$ grep -q dialout <(groups $(whoami)) || sudo usermod -a -G dialout $(whoami) # Note, will need to reboot if prompted for password
```

Then build the kernel by running `make` in the `boards/<platform>` directory.

### Installing Requirements

These steps go into a little more depth. Note that the build system is capable
of installing some of these tools, but you can also install them yourself.

#### Rust (nightly)

We are using `nightly-2018-04-19`. We require
installing it with [rustup](http://www.rustup.rs) so you can manage multiple
versions of Rust and continue using stable versions for other Rust code:

```bash
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
```

This will install `rustup` in your home directory, so you will need to
source `~/.profile` or open a new shell to add the `.cargo/bin` directory
to your `$PATH`.

Then install the correct nightly version of Rust:

```bash
$ rustup install nightly-2018-04-19
```

#### `arm-none-eabi` toolchain

We generally track the latest version of arm-none-eabi-gcc [as released by
ARM](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads).

There are known issues with arm-none-eabi-gcc version 5.1 and older, or other
versions packaged with a newlib version earlier than 2.3, as they will run into
problems with missing ARM intrinsics (e.g., `__aeabi_memclr`). Tock does not
support these versions.

##### Compiled Binaries

Pre-compiled binaries are available [from
ARM](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads).
The recommendations below will set up your operating system's package manager
to track the latest release from ARM.

##### MacOS

With [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) (preferred):

```bash
$ brew tap ARMmbed/homebrew-formulae
$ brew update
$ brew install arm-none-eabi-gcc
```

or with [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/):

```bash
$ port install arm-none-eabi-gcc
```

###### Heads Up!

The `make debug` target asks the Tock build system to generate a listings
(disassembly) file. Some developers have noticed that `arm-none-eabi-objdump`
takes a long time (order several minutes) on a mac while Activity Monitor
reports that `opendirectoryd` pegs the CPU.

This is a [known issue](http://superuser.com/questions/350879/) that you can
resolve by commenting out the `/home` line from `/etc/auto_master` and then
running `sudo automount -vc` to apply the changes.

##### Linux

If you install the binaries but get a "no such file or directory" error
when trying to run them, then you are most likely missing needed libraries.
Check that you have a 64-bit version of libc installed.

###### Ubuntu

```bash
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
```

###### Arch

On Arch Linux the `arm-none-eabi-newlib` package in pacman contains a
sufficiently up-to-date version of newlibc.

```bash
$ sudo pacman -S arm-none-eabi-gcc arm-none-eabi-newlib arm-none-eabi-gdb
```

##### Windows

You can download precompiled binaries for Windows from the ARM site listed
above. While we expect things should work on Windows, none of the active Tock
developers currently develop on Windows, so it is possible that there are
some unexpected pitfalls.

##### Other

Alternatively, if you would like simulator mode in `arm-none-eabi-gdb`,
you can use the build scripts in the `tools` directory, in this order:
`build-arm-binutils` then `build-arm-gcc` then `build-arm-gdb`.

## Compiling the Kernel

Tock builds a unique kernel for every _board_ it supports. Boards include
details like pulling together the correct chips and pin assignments. To
build a kernel, first choose a board, then navigate to that board directory.
e.g. `cd boards/hail ; make`.

Some boards have special build options that can only be used within the board's
directory.  All boards share a few common targets:

  - `all` (default): Compile Tock for this board.
  - `debug`: Generate build(s) for debugging support, details vary per board.
  - `doc`: Build documentation for this board.
  - `clean`: Remove built artifacts for this board.
  - `flash`: Load code using JTAG, if available.
  - `program`: Load code using a bootloader, if available.

The READMEs in each board provide more details for each platform.

## Compiling applications

All user-level code lives in the `userland` subdirectory. This
includes a specially compiled version of newlib, a user-level library
for talking to the kernel and specific drivers and a variety of
example applications.

Compiled applications are architecture-specific (e.g. `cortex-m4`,
`cortex-m0`) since the compiler emits slightly different instructions
for each variant. Compiled applications can also depend on specific
drivers, which not all boards provide; if you load an application onto
a board that does not support every driver/system call it uses, some
system calls with return error codes (`ENODEVICE` or `ENOSUPPORT`).

Applications are built for all architectures Tock supports, currently
`cortex-m0` and `cortex-m4`. Boards select an appropriate architecture when
uploading code (e.g. `cortex-m4` for the SAM4L on the `imix` board).

To compile an app, `cd` to the desired app and `make`. For example:

```bash
$ cd userland/examples/blink/
$ make
```

This will build the app and generate a binary in Tock Binary Format
(using the `elf2tab` utility):
`userland/examples/blink/build/cortex-m4/cortex-m4.bin`.

## Loading the kernel and applications onto a board

### Optional Requirements

For some boards, currently `Hail` and `imix`, you will need `tockloader`.
`tockloader` also has features that are generally useful to all Tock boards,
such as easy to manage serial connections, and the ability to list, add,
replace, and remove applications over JTAG (or USB if a bootloader is
installed).

1. [tockloader](https://github.com/tock/tockloader) (version >= 0.8)

Installing applications over JTAG, depending on your JTAG Debugger, you will
need one of:

1. [openocd](http://openocd.org/) (version >= 0.8.0)
2. [JLinkExe](https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink) (version >= 5.0)

#### `tockloader`

Tock requires `tockloader`. To install:

```bash
(Linux): sudo pip3 install tockloader
(MacOS): pip3 install tockloader
```

#### `openocd`

Works with various JTAG debuggers. We require at least version `0.8.0` to
support the SAM4L on `imix`.

```bash
(Linux): sudo apt-get install openocd
(MacOS): brew install open-ocd
```

#### `JLinkExe`

If you want to upload code through a [JLink JTAG
debugger](https://www.segger.com/j-link-edu.html) (available on
[Digikey](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/segger-microcontroller-systems/8.08.90-J-LINK-EDU/899-1008-ND/2263130)), you should install JLinkExe. We require a version greater than or equal to `5.0`.

It is available [here](https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink). You want to the
"J-Link Software and Documentation Pack". There are various packages available
depending on operating system.

### Loading code onto a board

This is generally done with `make program` and `make flash`, but is board
specific. To learn how to program your specific hardware, please see
the [board specific](../boards/README.md) READMEs.


## Formatting Rust source code

Rust includes a tool for automatically formatting Rust source
code. Simply run:

    $ make format

from the root of the repository to format all rust code in the repository.
To format all code (rust and c), run:

    $ make formatall


## Keeping build tools up to date

Occasionally, Tock updates to a new nightly version of Rust. The build system
automatically checks whether the versions of `rustc` and `rustup` are correct
for the build requirements, and updates them when necessary. After initial
installation of the initial four requirements, you shouldn't have to worry
about keeping them up to date.

Commit message:

more updates to userland references

doc/Getting_Started.md, after:

Tock Getting Started Guide
==========================

This covers how to get the toolchain setup on your platform to start using and
developing Tock.

## Requirements

1. [Rust](http://www.rust-lang.org/)
2. [rustup](https://rustup.rs/) to install Rust (version >= 1.11.0)
3. [arm-none-eabi toolchain](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads) (version >= 5.2)
4. Command line utilities: wget, sed, make, cmake

### Super Quick Setup

MacOS:
```
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
$ brew tap ARMmbed/homebrew-formulae && brew update && brew install arm-none-eabi-gcc
$ pip3 install tockloader
```

Ubuntu:
```
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa && sudo apt update && sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
$ pip3 install tockloader --user
$ grep -q dialout <(groups $(whoami)) || sudo usermod -a -G dialout $(whoami) # Note, will need to reboot if prompted for password
```

Then build the kernel by running `make` in the `boards/<platform>` directory.

### Installing Requirements

These steps go into a little more depth. Note that the build system is capable
of installing some of these tools, but you can also install them yourself.

#### Rust (nightly)

We are using `nightly-2018-04-19`. We require
installing it with [rustup](http://www.rustup.rs) so you can manage multiple
versions of Rust and continue using stable versions for other Rust code:

```bash
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
```

This will install `rustup` in your home directory, so you will need to
source `~/.profile` or open a new shell to add the `.cargo/bin` directory
to your `$PATH`.

Then install the correct nightly version of Rust:

```bash
$ rustup install nightly-2018-04-19
```

#### `arm-none-eabi` toolchain

We generally track the latest version of arm-none-eabi-gcc [as released by
ARM](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads).

There are known issues with arm-none-eabi-gcc version 5.1 and older, or other
versions packaged with a newlib version earlier than 2.3, as they will run into
problems with missing ARM intrinsics (e.g., `__aeabi_memclr`). Tock does not
support these versions.

##### Compiled Binaries

Pre-compiled binaries are available [from
ARM](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads).
The recommendations below will set up your operating system's package manager
to track the latest release from ARM.

##### MacOS

With [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) (preferred):

```bash
$ brew tap ARMmbed/homebrew-formulae
$ brew update
$ brew install arm-none-eabi-gcc
```

or with [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/):

```bash
$ port install arm-none-eabi-gcc
```

###### Heads Up!

The `make debug` target asks the Tock build system to generate a listings
(disassembly) file. Some developers have noticed that `arm-none-eabi-objdump`
takes a long time (order several minutes) on a mac while Activity Monitor
reports that `opendirectoryd` pegs the CPU.

This is a [known issue](http://superuser.com/questions/350879/) that you can
resolve by commenting out the `/home` line from `/etc/auto_master` and then
running `sudo automount -vc` to apply the changes.

##### Linux

If you install the binaries but get a "no such file or directory" error
when trying to run them, then you are most likely missing needed libraries.
Check that you have a 64-bit version of libc installed.

###### Ubuntu

```bash
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
```

###### Arch

On Arch Linux the `arm-none-eabi-newlib` package in pacman contains a
sufficiently up-to-date version of newlibc.

```bash
$ sudo pacman -S arm-none-eabi-gcc arm-none-eabi-newlib arm-none-eabi-gdb
```

##### Windows

You can download precompiled binaries for Windows from the ARM site listed
above. While we expect things should work on Windows, none of the active Tock
developers currently develop on Windows, so it is possible that there are
some unexpected pitfalls.

##### Other

Alternatively, if you would like simulator mode in `arm-none-eabi-gdb`,
you can use the build scripts in the `tools` directory, in this order:
`build-arm-binutils` then `build-arm-gcc` then `build-arm-gdb`.

## Compiling the Kernel

Tock builds a unique kernel for every _board_ it supports. Boards include
details like pulling together the correct chips and pin assignments. To
build a kernel, first choose a board, then navigate to that board directory.
e.g. `cd boards/hail ; make`.

Some boards have special build options that can only be used within the board's
directory.  All boards share a few common targets:

  - `all` (default): Compile Tock for this board.
  - `debug`: Generate build(s) for debugging support, details vary per board.
  - `doc`: Build documentation for this board.
  - `clean`: Remove built artifacts for this board.
  - `flash`: Load code using JTAG, if available.
  - `program`: Load code using a bootloader, if available.

The READMEs in each board provide more details for each platform.

## Compiling applications

All user-level code lives in separate repositories:

- [libtock-c](https://github.com/tock/libtock-c): C and C++ apps.
- [libtock-rs](https://github.com/tock/libtock-rs): Rust apps.

Compiled applications are architecture-specific (e.g. `cortex-m4`,
`cortex-m0`) since the compiler emits slightly different instructions
for each variant. Compiled applications can also depend on specific
drivers, which not all boards provide; if you load an application onto
a board that does not support every driver/system call it uses, some
system calls with return error codes (`ENODEVICE` or `ENOSUPPORT`).

Applications are built for all architectures Tock supports. Boards select an
appropriate architecture when uploading code (e.g. `cortex-m4` for the SAM4L on
the `imix` board). Apps are packaged into .tab files that contain compiled
binaries for all supported architectures.

## Loading the kernel and applications onto a board

### Optional Requirements

For some boards, currently `Hail` and `imix`, you will need `tockloader`.
`tockloader` also has features that are generally useful to all Tock boards,
such as easy to manage serial connections, and the ability to list, add,
replace, and remove applications over JTAG (or USB if a bootloader is
installed).

1. [tockloader](https://github.com/tock/tockloader) (version >= 0.8)

Installing applications over JTAG, depending on your JTAG Debugger, you will
need one of:

1. [openocd](http://openocd.org/) (version >= 0.8.0)
2. [JLinkExe](https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink) (version >= 5.0)

#### `tockloader`

Tock requires `tockloader`. To install:

```bash
(Linux): sudo pip3 install tockloader
(MacOS): pip3 install tockloader
```

#### `openocd`

Works with various JTAG debuggers. We require at least version `0.8.0` to
support the SAM4L on `imix`.

```bash
(Linux): sudo apt-get install openocd
(MacOS): brew install open-ocd
```

#### `JLinkExe`

If you want to upload code through a [JLink JTAG
debugger](https://www.segger.com/j-link-edu.html) (available on
[Digikey](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/segger-microcontroller-systems/8.08.90-J-LINK-EDU/899-1008-ND/2263130)), you should install JLinkExe. We require a version greater than or equal to `5.0`.

It is available [here](https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink). You want to the
"J-Link Software and Documentation Pack". There are various packages available
depending on operating system.

### Loading code onto a board

This is generally done with `make program` and `make flash`, but is board
specific. To learn how to program your specific hardware, please see
the [board specific](../boards/README.md) READMEs.


## Formatting Rust source code

Rust includes a tool for automatically formatting Rust source
code. Simply run:

    $ make format

from the root of the repository to format all rust code in the repository.
To format all code (rust and c), run:

    $ make formatall


## Keeping build tools up to date

Occasionally, Tock updates to a new nightly version of Rust. The build system
automatically checks whether the versions of `rustc` and `rustup` are correct
for the build requirements, and updates them when necessary. After initial
installation of the initial four requirements, you shouldn't have to worry
about keeping them up to date.
