# Tock Network WG Meeting Notes

- **Date:** April 13, 2026
- **Participants:**
    - Branden Ghena
    - Leon Schuermann
    - Vishwajith Govinda Rajan
- **Agenda:**
    1. Updates
    2. IPC and ProcessID
- **References:**
    - [ProcessID PR](https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/4777)


## Updates
- None today


## IPC and ProcessID
* ProcessID PR with discussion here: https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/4777
- What we need for IPC
    - Unique handle for a running process
    - Mechanism for knowing when a process has crashed/restarted
        - IPC has a notion of statefulness of participating processes
        * Leon: Brad has a question of why IPC can't be resilient against restarts and processes handle that
        * Leon: requiring the underlying transport to be transparent against restarts would make the implementation complex. Processes will keep track of their own transaction state instead
        * Leon: So either mechanism implicitly handles restarts by differing, or some reliable notification mechanism on restart
    - Handle needs to be shareable with userspace
        * Leon: doesn't have to be a global handle, can be different for processes (e.g., file descriptors). Descriptors are hard due to dynamic and unpredictable memory allocations needed
- What we have
    - ProcessID
        - Handle for a running process
        - Not currently unique, but could be made to be unique with PR #4777
        - Used for
            - Tracking which Process is actively using a capsule
                - They save the entire ProcessId type, not just 32-bit identifier
            - Accessing a grant for a specific process: https://github.com/tock/tock/blob/master/kernel/src/grant.rs#L1752
                - This includes scheduling upcalls
        - Generated by
            - Monotonically increasing number
    - AppID
        - Optional, long, stable, potentially authenticated byte-string identifier for an application.
            - Unique across *running* processes
        - Have “Locally Unique” option, in which case they don’t actually exist
            - This is the implementation of "optional"
            - https://github.com/tock/tock/blob/master/doc/reference/trd-appid.md#312-the-locally-unique-identifier
        - Used for
            - Nothing. Doesn't actually exist as a type in Tock to my knowledge. It’s just a concept. Please prove me wrong with a line of code in Tock.
                - Maybe this makes sense. Only exists as far as the process checker, since there are many variations on implementation
    - ShortID
        - Optional, 32-bit compressed representation of AppID
        - Have “Locally Unique” option, in which case they don’t actually exist
            - This is the implementation of "optional"
            - https://github.com/tock/tock/blob/master/doc/reference/trd-appid.md#8-short-ids-and-the-compress-trait
        - Only exist for processes. Checker considers it when loading
        - Stable: in the case of collisions, we arbitrary do not run one of the apps
        - Used for
            - Access control to a resource, for example display regions or storage regions
        - Generated by
            - Either hard-coded in the TBF header
            - Or set to “Locally Unique” (i.e., doesn't exist)

### Discussion
 * Leon: I looked into ProcessID use generally. PIDs are problematic because they can get recycled. Real vulnerability. Linux relies on them for signal delivery, which is problematic. So Linux is switching to file descriptors for signal delivery too, to try to get rid of them for good.
 * Leon: PIDs don't matter for IPC because IPC often uses a file descriptor to some shared mechanism.
 * Vish: Because PID is an instance-based ID, you need some other identifier for context so apps know which actual application it is. One thought is that AppID is unique only if apps are signed. That's a policy-level thing, where the developer for the board should provision for it, which isn't always true.
 * Leon: A couple things to unpack. It's true that an implementation will want to talk to a specific application, not some random process. They want an instance of a specific Application, addressable by a predictable name. A few of these: process name in TBF header, AppID if the binary is signed, applications could register a name at runtime.
 * Leon: What we realized early on is that how you identify apps is very different among stakeholders. Various policies. Because they have different ideas totally, our idea is to cleanly separate IPC system into two parts: first is discovery capsule that maps a stable identifier to some handle for a process instance, second communication capsules use that handle to send data to a target process instance.
 * Leon: So, we deliberately leave it open how apps are identified. But we do need some handle for process instances, and if that captures process restarts implicitly that's nice as it means communication automatically fails
 * Vish: What happens if the IPC manager restarts?
 * Leon: That's part of the kernel. I think we're not considering that being fallible.
 * Leon: Secondarily, we separate discovery and communication so that discovery can have a complex identifier that is expensive to send around, but then communication can use a smaller, simpler handle that is less expensive. ShortID is one example that we could use for this. ShortID could have collisions, which need to be avoided. Also, ShortID doesn't implicitly handle any process restarting.
 * Leon: ShortID is not necessarily stable. As compression could generate a different value based on existing applications So we can't use it for discovery. Also concerning for storage use?
 * Branden: in practice it's hard-coded in the TBF header, so it is stable which is why we can trust it.
 * Vish: The checker won't load a process with a colliding AppID/ShortID. If process A exists with a ShortID, and process B has the same ShortID, the process loader will not load Process B
 * Leon: Generating a ShortID is problematic. Unclear why we do it at all?
 * Vish: You don't know what AppID implementation or compression mechanism a board will use, and don't want to limit them.
 * Branden: So, coming back to the point here, ShortID is not really a unique identifier for a process. The process could restart. Or end and a new process is loaded with the same ShortID.
 * Leon: It is a stable application identifier though. If two binaries have the same ShortID, we treat them as the same application. That's important, because IPC should then communicate with either of them. It's not an arbitrary application, it's the "same" conceptual application. That's a better security guarantee. It's the same "principal" in security parlance.
 * Leon: two remaining issues:
   1. we don't have ShortIDs for every process
   2. we still want to be aware of process restarts (if we know that we're talking to the same app, perhaps fine for this to be imperfect)
 * Leon: For example, handle could be a tuple of ShortID and a counter. Which isn't perfect, but will probably work. Not a security problem, just a communication issue. Consequence would be things not working, not leaking private.
 * Leon: This is Brad's most-recent comment on the PR. This addresses issues around IPC, but not necessarily for other kernel use cases
 * Vish: A lot of this came from us trying to figure out a good identifier for uninstalls. If you want to uninstall something that's never been run, how do you do that? Can't be a ShortID
 * Leon: I'm relatively convinced that a tuple of ShortID and some restart count is sufficient. We don't need index, as we don't know that an application will have a stable spot in the array. Vish is working on dynamic loading for instance. This would work as a handle for IPC in userspace. I'm less sure that it's an appropriate replacement for ProcessID as we use it in the kernel right now
 * Branden: IPC could have it's own handle that isn't used widely in the system
 * Branden: We use ProcessID, one of its use cases is tracking which process is actively using a capsule. If we change that, it would break things because there is statefulness in the capsule. This could lead to incorrect state in the capsule. Same problem for IPC.
 * Leon: Problem is: what are the guarantees that we need, and what are consequences of these identifiers being reused? Consequences potentially different across IPC and uses in the kernel. Possible that we have uses in the kernel that are more problematic.
 * Branden: for processes, you're getting errors and can restart communication pattern. For capsules, might get DoS / lock-up.
 * Leon: force us to reason about safety of these capsules individually.
 * Branden: ShortId doesn't exist. Maybe that's why Brad was proposing index.
 * Leon: index is not stable, shouldn't rely on it. That fact that we have a processes array is an implementation details.
 * Branden: not a ShortId for every process.
 * Leon: how about: ShortId partitioned into two key spaces: one for assigned ones, and one for locally unique ones based on counter?
 * Branden: doesn't this just re-create ProcessID? So if there isn't a ShortID we use ProcessID
 * Branden: basically we're re-creating ProcessID as ShortID because ShortID doesn't always exist
 * Leon: The big problem is that ShortID doesn't always exist. Feels like a big issue for our use-case. Fine for mediating access to persistent resources. But should we exclude processes that don't have ShortIDs from IPC? Maybe that's okay, but I'm worried that downstream users might not want to rely on that?

