---
driver number: `0x00004`
---

# GPIO

## Overview

The GPIO driver allows userspace to synchronously control the output and
receive callbacks on changes in the input for a set of GPIO pins.

This is a low-level GPIO driver designed to export "hardware-like" control
of GPIO pins to userspace. Not all platforms will expose all or even any
pins using this interface to userspace.

_Unstable:_ As this is a low-level interface, the mapping of GPIO pins
is currently unstable and unspecified. Users of this driver must consult
their board for a mapping from pin identifiers used in this driver to
actual hardware pins. This mapping is currently subject to change.

## Command

  * ### Command number: `0`

    **Description**: Whether GPIO pins are exported by this board.

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: _Unstable:_ Most boards return the number of GPIO pins
    available, however users should consult their board for details of
    this return value.
    `ENODEVICE` if this driver is not present on the board.


  * ### Command number: `1`

    **Description**: Enable output on a GPIO pin. After enabling output,
    output-related operations on the pin (`set`, `clear`, `toggle`) are
    available. Using input operations on a pin in this state is undefined.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to enable output for.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: SUCCESS if the command was successful, and `EINVAL` if the
    argument refers to a non-existent pin.

  * ### Command number: `2`

    **Description**: Set the output of a GPIO pin (high). Using this command
    without first enabling output is undefined.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to set.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the pin identifier is valid, `EINVAL` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `3`

    **Description**: Clear the output of a GPIO pin (low). Using this command
    without first enabling output is undefined.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to clear.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the pin identifier is valid, `EINVAL` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `4`

    **Description**: Toggle the output of a GPIO pin. If the pin was
    previously high, this operation clears it. If it was previously low, sets
    it. Using this command without first enabling output is undefined.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to toggle.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the pin identifier is valid, `EINVAL` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `5`

    **Description**: Enable and configure input on a GPIO pin. After enabling
    input, input-related operations on the pin (e.g. `read`) are available.
    Using output operations on a pin in this state is undefined.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to toggle.

    **Argument 2**: requested resistor to attach to the pin: `0` for pull-none,
    `1` for pull-up, or `2` for pull-down. Other values are undefined.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the pin identifier is valid, `EINVAL` if it is
    invalid, and `ENOSUPPORT` if the resistor configuration is not supported by
    the hardware. If any error is returned, no state will be changed.

  * ### Command number: `6`

    **Description**: Read the current value of a GPIO pin.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to read.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `EINVAL` if the identifier of the pin is invalid, `1` if the
    value of the pin is high or `0` if it is low.

  * ### Command number: `7`

    **Description**: Configure interrupts on a GPIO pin.
    After enabling interrupts, the callback set in subscribe will be called
    when the pin level changes.
    Using this command without first enabling input is undefined.

    **Argument 1**: The identifier of the GPIO pin to read.

    **Argument 2**: Indicates which events trigger callbacks: `0` for either
    edge, `1` for rising edge, or `2` for falling edge. Other values are
    undefined.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the pin identifier is valid, `EINVAL` if it is
    invalid, and `ENOSUPPORT` if an invalid interrupt mode is passed in the
    configuration field of the argument. If any error is returned, no state
    will be changed.

## Subscribe

  * ### Subscribe number: `0`

    **Description**: Subscribe a callback that will fire when any GPIO pin whose
    interrupts have been enabled changes level. Registering the callback does
    not have an effect on whether any GPIO pin interrupts are enabled.

    **Callback signature**: The callback receives two arguments. The first is
    the identifier of the GPIO pin whose level has changed, and the second is
    the value of the pin when the interrupt occurred. The second argument has
    the same semantics as the return value for the `read` command: `0` for low,
    `1` for high.

    **Returns**: SUCCESS if the subscribe was successful, ENOMEM if the driver
    cannot support another app, and `EINVAL` if the app is somehow invalid.

## Allow

Unused for the GPIO driver. Will always return `ENOSUPPORT`.

