---
driver number: 0x00005
---

# ADC (Analog-to-Digital Converter)

## Overview

The ADC driver allows userspace to measure analog signals. The signals, such as
a sensor measurement or voltage level, are usually connected to external pins
on the microcontroller, referred to as channels, and this driver supports
selecting which channel to measure from. Channels available to userspace are
selected by the board configuration, and are indexed starting from zero.
The number of bits of data in each sample and the possible voltage range of
each sample are chip specific.

The ADC driver is capable of requesting single samples, single samples repeated
at a specified frequency, a buffer full of samples at a specified frequency,
and continuously sampling at a specified frequency. The minimum and maximum
sampling frequencies are chip specific.

## Command

  * ### Command number: `0`

    **Description**: How many ADC channels are supported on this board.

    **Argument 1**: Unused.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: The number of channels on the board, or `ENODEVICE` if this
    driver is not present on the board.

  * ### Command number: `1`

    **Description**: Measure the analog value of a single channel once. The
    callback will return the sample. This command will succeed even if a
    callback is not registered yet.

    **Argument 1**: The index of the channel to sample, starting at 0.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the command was successful, `EBUSY` if the ADC is
    already sampling a channel, and `EINVAL` if the channel index is invalid.
    `FAIL` may also be returned if the hardware has a fault.

  * ### Command number: `2`

    **Description**: Measure the analog value of a single channel repeatedly.
    The callback will return each sample value individually. This command will
    succeed even if a callback is not registered yet.

    **Argument 1**: The index of the channel to sample, starting at 0.

    **Argument 2**: The frequency at which to sample the value.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the command was successful, `EBUSY` if the ADC is
    already sampling a channel, and `EINVAL` if the channel index is invalid or
    the frequency is outside of the acceptable range. `FAIL` may also be
    returned if the hardware has a fault.

  * ### Command number: `3`

    **Description**: Measure the analog value of a single channel repeatedly,
    filling a buffer with data before sending a callback. The callback will
    return the buffer of samples. This command will succeed even if a callback
    is not registered yet. A buffer must have previously been provided through
    an `allow` call before this command will succeed.

    **Argument 1**: The index of the channel to sample, starting at 0.

    **Argument 2**: The frequency at which to sample the value.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the command was successful, `EBUSY` if the ADC is
    already sampling a channel, `ENOMEM` if a buffer has not been provided, and
    `EINVAL` if the channel index is invalid or the frequency is outside of the
    acceptable range. `FAIL` may also be returned if the hardware has a fault.

  * ### Command number: `4`

    **Description**: Measure the analog value of a single channel continuously.
    Two buffers must be provided by `allow` calls before this command will
    succeed. The buffers will be filled with samples in an alternating fashion,
    with the callback returning the buffer full of samples. Special care must
    be taken when using this command to ensure that the buffer sizes are large
    enough for the specified sampling frequency that all samples can be read
    before the next buffer is filled with samples. This command will succeed
    even if a callback is not registered yet.

    **Argument 1**: The index of the channel to sample, starting at 0.

    **Argument 2**: The frequency at which to sample the value.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if the command was successful, `EBUSY` if the ADC is
    already sampling a channel, `ENOMEM` if both buffers have not been
    provided, and `EINVAL` if the channel index is invalid or the frequency is
    outside of the acceptable range. `FAIL` may also be returned if the
    hardware has a fault.

  * ### Command number: `5`

    **Description**: Stop any active sampling operation. This command is
    successful even if no sampling operation was in progress.

    **Argument 1**: Unused.

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` in all cases.

## Subscribe

  * ### Subscribe number: `0`

    **Description**: Register a callback that will fire when requested samples
    are ready, replacing any previously registered callback. The samples
    collected before a callback is fired depends on the command which began the
    sampling operation. Registering the callback does not start or stop any
    sampling operations.

    **Callback signature**: The signature of the callback depends on the
    command used to begin sampling operations. In all cases, the first argument
    is the type of ADC sampling operation that triggered this callback. If the
    operation provides individual samples (singly or repeatedly), the second
    argument will be the channel on which sampling occurred and the third
    argument will be the sample value. If the operation provides buffered
    samples (singly or repeatedly), the second argument will contain the
    channel index in the least significant 8 bits and the length of the buffer
    in the most significant 24 bits, while the third argument will be a pointer
    to the buffer filled with samples.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` in all cases.

## Allow

  * ### Allow number: `0`

    **Description**: Provide a buffer into which samples values can be placed,
    replacing any previously provided buffer. This buffer will be used for any
    singly collected buffered data and will be used in addition to the second
    buffer for repeated buffered sampling. Future ADC operations will continue
    to use the same buffer.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` in all cases.

  * ### Allow number: `1`

    **Description**: Provide a buffer into which samples values can be placed
    when repeatedly buffered sampling, replacing any previously provided buffer.
    This buffer and the other provided buffer will be alternated between. Future
    ADC operations will continue to use the same buffer.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` in all cases.

