doc/syscalls/README.md, before:

Tock Syscalls
=============

This folder contains the detailed documentation for the interfaces between
userspace and the kernel. It includes details of the ABI interface, the kernel
provided syscalls, and the driver specific interfaces (using `allow`,
`schedule`, and `command`). For more information on the general syscalls, see
[here](../Syscalls.md).

<!-- toc -->

- [Syscall Binary Interface](#syscall-binary-interface)
- [Core Kernel Provided Syscalls](#core-kernel-provided-syscalls)
- [Capsule Provided Drivers](#capsule-provided-drivers)
  * [Base](#base)
  * [Kernel](#kernel)
  * [HW Buses](#hw-buses)
  * [Radio](#radio)
  * [Cryptography](#cryptography)
  * [Storage](#storage)
  * [Sensors](#sensors)
  * [Sensor ICs](#sensor-ics)
  * [Other ICs](#other-ics)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Syscall Binary Interface

Details of the [application binary interface](../Syscalls.md).

## Core Kernel Provided Syscalls

- [`memop`](memop.md): Memory-related operations.

## Capsule Provided Drivers

Each driver type that has been allocated a permanent driver number is listed in
the tables below. The "1.0" column indicates whether the driver has been
stabilized or not (a "✓" indicates stability) in the Tock 1.0 release.

### Base

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver                      | Description                                |
|---|---------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| ✓ | 0x00000       | [Alarm](00000_alarm.md)     | Used for timers in userspace               |
| ✓ | 0x00001       | [Console](00001_console.md) | UART console                               |
| ✓ | 0x00002       | [LED](00002_leds.md)        | Control LEDs on board                      |
| ✓ | 0x00003       | [Button](00003_buttons.md)  | Get interrupts from buttons on the board   |
|   | 0x00004       | [GPIO](00004_gpio.md)       | Set and read GPIO pins                     |
| ✓ | 0x00005       | [ADC](00005_adc.md)         | Sample analog-to-digital converter pins    |
|   | 0x00006       | DAC                         | Digital to analog converter                |
|   | 0x00007       | [AnalogComparator](00007_analog_comparator.md) | Analog Comparator       |
|   | 0x00008       | [Low-Level Debug](00008_low_level_debug.md) | Low-level debugging tools  |

### Kernel

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x10000       | IPC              | Inter-process communication                |

### HW Buses

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x20000       | UART             | UART                                       |
|   | 0x20001       | SPI              | Raw SPI Master interface                   |
|   | 0x20002       | SPI Slave        | Raw SPI slave interface                    |
|   | 0x20003       | I2C Master       | Raw I2C Master interface                   |
|   | 0x20004       | I2C Slave        | Raw I2C Slave interface                    |
|   | 0x20005       | USB              | Universal Serial Bus interface             |

### Radio

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x30000       | BLE              | Bluetooth Low Energy                       |
|   | 0x30001       | 802.15.4         | IEEE 802.15.4                              |
|   | 0x30002       | [UDP](30002_udp.md)  | UDP / 6LoWPAN Interface                |

### Cryptography

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x40000       | AES              | AES Symmetric Key Cryptography             |
|   | 0x40001       | RNG              | Random number generator                    |
|   | 0x40002       | CRC              | Cyclic Redundancy Check computation        |

### Storage

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x50000       | App Flash        | Allow apps to write their own flash        |
|   | 0x50001       | Nonvolatile Storage | Generic interface for persistent storage |
|   | 0x50002       | SDCard           | Raw block access to an SD card             |

### Sensors

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver                                        | Description                                |
|---|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| ✓ | 0x60000       | [Ambient Temp.](60000_ambient_temperature.md) | Ambient temperature (centigrate)           |
| ✓ | 0x60001       | [Humidity](60001_humidity.md)                 | Humidity Sensor (percent)                  |
| ✓ | 0x60002       | [Luminance](60002_luminance.md)               | Ambient Light Sensor (lumens)              |
|   | 0x60003       | Pressure         | Pressure sensor                            |
|   | 0x60004       | Ninedof          | Virtualized accelerometer/magnetometer/gyroscope |

### Sensor ICs

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver                    | Description                                |
|---|---------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x70000       | TSL2561                   | Light sensor                               |
|   | 0x70001       | TMP006                    | Temperature sensor                         |
|   | 0x70004       | LPS25HB                   | Pressure sensor                            |
|   | 0x70005       | [L3GD20](70005_l3gd20.md) | 3 axis gyroscope and temperature sensor    |

### Other ICs

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x80000       | LTC294X          | Battery gauge IC                           |
|   | 0x80001       | MAX17205         | Battery gauge IC                           |
|   | 0x80002       | PCA9544A         | I2C address multiplexing                   |
|   | 0x80003       | GPIO Async       | Asynchronous GPIO pins                     |
|   | 0x80004       | nRF51822         | nRF serialization link to nRF51822 BLE SoC |
| ✓ | 0x80005       | [HD44780](80005_hd44780.md)          | LCD HD44780 capsule                        |

Commit message:

doc: Update GPIO syscall for pseudo-stabilization
The GPIO interface provides low-level hardware access, and as such
isn't something we necessarily intend to ever stabalize as a general
OS interface. This realigns documentation to match this intent.

doc/syscalls/README.md, after:

Tock Syscalls
=============

This folder contains the detailed documentation for the interfaces between
userspace and the kernel. It includes details of the ABI interface, the kernel
provided syscalls, and the driver specific interfaces (using `allow`,
`schedule`, and `command`). For more information on the general syscalls, see
[here](../Syscalls.md).

<!-- toc -->

- [Syscall Binary Interface](#syscall-binary-interface)
- [Core Kernel Provided Syscalls](#core-kernel-provided-syscalls)
- [Capsule Provided Drivers](#capsule-provided-drivers)
  * [Base](#base)
  * [Kernel](#kernel)
  * [Hardware Access](#hardware-access)
  * [Radio](#radio)
  * [Cryptography](#cryptography)
  * [Storage](#storage)
  * [Sensors](#sensors)
  * [Sensor ICs](#sensor-ics)
  * [Other ICs](#other-ics)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Syscall Binary Interface

Details of the [application binary interface](../Syscalls.md).

## Core Kernel Provided Syscalls

- [`memop`](memop.md): Memory-related operations.

## Capsule Provided Drivers

Each driver type that has been allocated a permanent driver number is listed in
the tables below. The "1.0" column indicates whether the driver has been
stabilized or not (a "✓" indicates stability) in the Tock 1.0 release.

### Base

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver                      | Description                                |
|---|---------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| ✓ | 0x00000       | [Alarm](00000_alarm.md)     | Used for timers in userspace               |
| ✓ | 0x00001       | [Console](00001_console.md) | UART console                               |
| ✓ | 0x00002       | [LED](00002_leds.md)        | Control LEDs on board                      |
| ✓ | 0x00003       | [Button](00003_buttons.md)  | Get interrupts from buttons on the board   |
| ✓ | 0x00005       | [ADC](00005_adc.md)         | Sample analog-to-digital converter pins    |
|   | 0x00006       | DAC                         | Digital to analog converter                |
|   | 0x00007       | [AnalogComparator](00007_analog_comparator.md) | Analog Comparator       |
|   | 0x00008       | [Low-Level Debug](00008_low_level_debug.md) | Low-level debugging tools  |

### Kernel

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x10000       | IPC              | Inter-process communication                |

### Hardware Access

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x00004       | [GPIO](00004_gpio.md) | Set and read GPIO pins                |
|   | 0x20000       | UART             | UART                                       |
|   | 0x20001       | SPI              | Raw SPI Master interface                   |
|   | 0x20002       | SPI Slave        | Raw SPI slave interface                    |
|   | 0x20003       | I2C Master       | Raw I2C Master interface                   |
|   | 0x20004       | I2C Slave        | Raw I2C Slave interface                    |
|   | 0x20005       | USB              | Universal Serial Bus interface             |

_Note:_ GPIO is slated for re-numbering in Tock 2.0.

### Radio

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x30000       | BLE              | Bluetooth Low Energy                       |
|   | 0x30001       | 802.15.4         | IEEE 802.15.4                              |
|   | 0x30002       | [UDP](30002_udp.md)  | UDP / 6LoWPAN Interface                |

### Cryptography

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x40000       | AES              | AES Symmetric Key Cryptography             |
|   | 0x40001       | RNG              | Random number generator                    |
|   | 0x40002       | CRC              | Cyclic Redundancy Check computation        |

### Storage

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x50000       | App Flash        | Allow apps to write their own flash        |
|   | 0x50001       | Nonvolatile Storage | Generic interface for persistent storage |
|   | 0x50002       | SDCard           | Raw block access to an SD card             |

### Sensors

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver                                        | Description                                |
|---|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| ✓ | 0x60000       | [Ambient Temp.](60000_ambient_temperature.md) | Ambient temperature (centigrate)           |
| ✓ | 0x60001       | [Humidity](60001_humidity.md)                 | Humidity Sensor (percent)                  |
| ✓ | 0x60002       | [Luminance](60002_luminance.md)               | Ambient Light Sensor (lumens)              |
|   | 0x60003       | Pressure         | Pressure sensor                            |
|   | 0x60004       | Ninedof          | Virtualized accelerometer/magnetometer/gyroscope |

### Sensor ICs

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver                    | Description                                |
|---|---------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x70000       | TSL2561                   | Light sensor                               |
|   | 0x70001       | TMP006                    | Temperature sensor                         |
|   | 0x70004       | LPS25HB                   | Pressure sensor                            |
|   | 0x70005       | [L3GD20](70005_l3gd20.md) | 3 axis gyroscope and temperature sensor    |

### Other ICs

|1.0| Driver Number | Driver           | Description                                |
|---|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|   | 0x80000       | LTC294X          | Battery gauge IC                           |
|   | 0x80001       | MAX17205         | Battery gauge IC                           |
|   | 0x80002       | PCA9544A         | I2C address multiplexing                   |
|   | 0x80003       | GPIO Async       | Asynchronous GPIO pins                     |
|   | 0x80004       | nRF51822         | nRF serialization link to nRF51822 BLE SoC |
| ✓ | 0x80005       | [HD44780](80005_hd44780.md)          | LCD HD44780 capsule                        |
