doc/reference/trd-time.md, before:

Kernel Time HIL
========================================

**TRD:** <br/>
**Working Group:** Kernel<br/>
**Type:** Documentary<br/>
**Status:** Draft <br/>
**Author:** Guillaume Endignoux, Amit Levy and Philip Levis <br/>
**Draft-Created:** Feb 06, 2017<br/>
**Draft-Modified:** March 18, 2020<br/>
**Draft-Version:** 2<br/>
**Draft-Discuss:** tock-dev@googlegroups.com</br>

Abstract
-------------------------------

This document describes the hardware independent layer interface (HIL) for time
in the Tock operating system kernel. It describes the Rust traits and other
definitions for this service as well as the reasoning behind them. This
document is in full compliance with [TRD1].

1 Introduction
===============================

Microcontrollers provide a variety of hardware controllers that keep track of
time. The Tock kernel organizes these various types of controllers into two
broad categories: alarms and timers. Alarms continuously increment a clock and
can fire an event when the clock reaches a specific value. Timers can fire an
event after a certain number of clock tics have elapsed.

The time HIL is in the kernel crate, in module `hil::time`. It provides six
main traits:


  * `kernel::hil::time::Time`: provides an abstraction of a moment in time. It has two associated types. One describes the width and maximum value of a time value. The other specifies the frequency of the ticks of the time value.
  * `kernel::hil::time::Counter`: derives from `Time` and provides an abstraction of a free-running counter that can be started or stopped. A `Counter`'s moment in time is the current value of the counter.
  * `kernel::hil::time::Alarm`: derives from `Time`, and provides an abstraction of being able to receive a callback at a future moment in time. 
  * `kernel::hil::time::Timer`: derives from `Time`, and provides an abstraction of being able to receive a callback at some amount of time in the future, or a series of callbacks at a given period.
  * `kernel::hil::time::OverflowClient`: handles an overflow callback from a `Counter`.
  * `kernel::hil::time::AlarmClient`: handles the callback from an `Alarm`.
  * `kernel::hil::time::TimerClient`: handles the callback from a `Timer`.

In addition, to provide a level of minimal platform independence, a
port of Tock to a given microcontoller is expected to implement
certain instances of these traits. This allows, for example, system
call capsules for alarm callbacks to work across boards and chips.

This document describes these traits, their semantics, and the
instances that a Tock chip is expected to implement.

2 `Time`, `Frequency`, and `Ticks` traits
===============================

The `Time` trait represents a moment in time, which is obtained by
calling `now`.

The trait has two associated types. The first, `Frequency`, is an
implementation of the `Frequency` trait which describes how many ticks
there are in a second. The inverse of the frequency defines the time
interval between two ticks of time.

The second associated type, `Ticks`, defines the width of the time
value. This is an associated type because different microcontrollers
represent time with different bit widths: most Cortex-M
microcontrollers, for example, use 32 bits, while RISC-V uses 64 bits
and the Nordic nRF51822 provides only a 24-bit counter. The `Ticks`
associated type defines this, such that users of the `Time` trait can
know when wraparound will occur.


```rust
pub trait Ticks: Clone + Copy + From<u32> {
    fn into_usize(self) -> usize;
    fn into_u32(self) -> u32;

    fn wrapping_add(self, other: Self) -> Self;
    fn wrapping_sub(self, other: Self) -> Self;

    // Returns whether `when` is in the range of [`start`, `end`), using
    // unsigned arithmetic and considering wraparound. It returns true
    // if, incrementing from start, when will be reached before end.
    // Put another way, it returns (when - start) < (end - start) in
    // unsigned arithmetic.
    fn within_range(start: Self, when: Self, end: Self) -> bool;
    fn max_value() -> Self;
}

pub trait Frequency {
    fn frequency() -> u32; // Represented in Hz
}

pub trait Time {
    type Frequency: Frequency;
    type Ticks: Ticks;

    fn now(&self) -> Self::Ticks;

    // Returns the number of ticks in the provided number of seconds,
    // rounding down any fractions.
    fn ticks_from_seconds(s: u32) -> Self::Ticks;
    
    // Returns the number of ticks in the provided number of milliseconds,
    // rounding down any fractions.
    fn ticks_from_ms(ms: u32) -> Self::Ticks;

    // Returns the number of ticks in the provided number of microseconds,
    // rounding down any fractions.
    fn ticks_from_us(us: u32) -> Self::Ticks;
}
```

Frequency is defined with an [associated type] of the `Time` trait
(`Time::Frequencey`). It MUST implement the `Frequency` trait, which
has a single method, `frequency`. `frequency` returns the frequency in
Hz, e.g. 1MHz is 1000000. Clients can use this to write code that is
independent of the underlying frequency.

An instance of `Time` or derived trait MUST NOT have a `Frequency`
which is greater than its underlying frequency precision.  It must be
able to accurately return every possible value in the range of `Ticks`
without further quantization. It is therefore not allowed to take a
32kHz clock and present it as an instance of `Time` with a frequency
of `Freq16MHz`.

`Frequency` allows a user of `Time` to know the granularity of ticks
and so avoid quantization error when two different times map to the
same time tick. For example, if a user of `Time` needs microsecond
precision, then the associated type can be used to statically check
that is is not put on top of an implementation with 32kHz precision.

The three `ticks_from` methods are helper functions to convert values
in seconds, milliseconds, or microseconds to a number of ticks. These
three methods all round down the result. This means, for example, that
if the `Time` instance has a frequency of 32kHz, calling
`ticks_from_us(20)` returns 0, because a single tick of a 32kHz clock
is 30.5 microseconds.

[associated type]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/associated-types.html


3 `Counter` and `OverflowClient` traits
===============================

The `Counter` trait is the abstraction of a free-running counter that
can be started and stopped. This trait derives from the `Time` trait, so
it has associated `Frequency` and `Tick` types. The `Counter` trait
allows a client to register for callbacks when the counter overflows.

```rust
pub trait OverflowClient {
  fn overflow(&self);
}

pub trait Counter<'a>: Time {
  fn start(&self) -> ReturnCode;
  fn stop(&self) -> ReturnCode;
  fn is_running(&self) -> bool;
  fn set_client(&'a self, &'a dyn OverflowClient);
}
```

The `OverflowClient` trait is separated from the `AlarmClient` trait
because there are cases when software simply wants a free-running
counter to keep track of time, but does not need triggers at a
particular time. For hardware that has a limited number of
compare registers, allocating one of them when the compare itself
isn't needed would be wasteful.

A `Counter` implementation MUST NOT provide a `Frequency` of a higher
resolution than an underlying hardware counter. For example, if the
underlying hardware counter has a frequency of 32kHz, then a `Counter`
cannot say it has a frequency of 1MHz by multiplying the underlying
counter by 32. A `Counter` implementation MAY provide a `Frequency` of
a lower resolution (e.g., by stripping bits).



4 `Alarm` and `AlarmClient` traits
===============================

Instances of the `Alarm` trait track an incrementing clock and can
trigger callbacks when the clock reaches a specific value as well as
when it overflows. The trait is derived from `Time` trait and
therefore has associated `Time::Frequency` and `Ticks` types.

The `AlarmClient` trait handles callbacks from an instance of `Alarm`.
The trait derives from `OverflowClient` and adds an additional callback
denoting that the time specified to the `Alarm` has been reached.

`Alarm` and `Timer` (presented below) differ in their level of
abstraction. An `Alarm` presents the abstraction of receiving a
callback when a point in time is reached or on an overflow. In
contrast, `Timer` allows one to request callbacks at some interval in
the future, either once or periodically. `Alarm` requests a callback
at an absolute moment while `Timer` requests a callback at a point
relative to now.

```rust
pub trait AlarmClient: OverflowClient {
  fn alarm(&self);
}

pub trait Alarm: Time {
  fn set_alarm(&self, now: Self::Ticks, dt: Self::Ticks);
  fn get_alarm(&self) -> Self::Ticks;
  fn disable(&self) -> ReturnCode;
  fn set_client(&'a self, client: &'a dyn AlarmClient);    
}
```

`Alarm` has a `disable` in order to cancel an existing alarm. Calling
`set_alarm` enables an alarm.

The `set_alarm` method takes a `now` and a `dt` parameter to handle
edge cases in which it can be impossible distinguish between alarms
for the very near future and alarms for the very far future. The edge
case occurs when the underlying counter increments past the compare
value between when the call was made and the compare register is
actually set. Because the counter has moved past the intended compare
value, it will have to wrap around before the alarm will
fire. However, one cannot assume that the counter has moved past the
intended compare and issue a callback: the software may have requested
an alarm very far in the future, close to the width of the counter.

Having a `now` and `dt` parameters disambiguates these two
cases. Suppose the current counter value is `current`. If, using
unsigned arithmetic, `(current - now) >= dt` then the callback should
be issued immediately (e.g., with a deferred procedure call).

5 `Timer` and `TimerClient` traits
===============================

The `Timer` trait presents the abstraction of a software timer. The
timer can either be one-shot or periodic with a fixed
interval. `Timer` derives from `Time`, therefore has associated
`Time::Frequency` and `Ticks` types.

The `TimerClient` trait handles callbacks from an instance of `Timer`.
The trait has a single callback, denoting that the timer has fired.

```rust
pub trait TimerClient {
  fn fired(&self);
}

pub trait Timer<'a>: Time {
  fn set_client(&'a self, &'a dyn TimerClient);
  fn oneshot(&self, interval: Self::Ticks) -> Self::Ticks;
  fn repeating(&self, interval: Self::Ticks) -> Self::Ticks;

  fn interval(&self) -> Option<Self::Ticks>;
  fn is_oneshot(&self) -> bool;
  fn is_repeating(&self) -> bool;

  fn time_remaining(&self) -> Option<Self::Ticks>;
  fn is_enabled(&self) -> bool;

  fn cancel(&self) -> ReturnCode;
}
```

The `oneshot` method causes the timer to issue the `TimerClient`'s
`fired` method exactly once when `interval` clock ticks have elapsed.
Calling `oneshot` MUST invalidate and replace any previous calls to
`oneshot` or `repeating`. The method returns the actual number of
ticks in the future that the callback will execute. This value MAY be
greater than `interval` to prevent certain timer race conditions
(e.g., that require a compare be set at least N ticks in the future)
but MUST NOT be less than `interval`.

The `repeating` method causes the timer to call the `Client`'s `fired`
method periodically, every `interval` clock ticks. Calling `oneshot`
MUST invalidate and replace any previous calls to `oneshot` or
`repeat`. The method returns the actual number of ticks in the future
that the first callback will execute. This value MAY be greater than
`interval` to prevent certain timer race conditions (e.g., that
require a compare be set at least N ticks in the future) but MUST NOT
be less than `interval`.


6 `Frequency` and `Ticks` Implementations
=================================

The time HIL provides four standard implementations of `Frequency`:

```rust
pub struct Freq16MHz;
pub struct Freq1MHz;
pub struct Freq32KHz;
pub struct Freq16KHz;
pub struct Freq1KHz;
```

The time HIL provides three standard implementaitons of `Ticks`:

```rust
pub struct Ticks24Bits(u32);
pub struct Ticks32Bits(u32);
pub struct Ticks64Bits(u64);
```

The 24 bits implementation is to support some Nordic Semiconductor
nRF platforms (e.g. nRF52840) that only support a 24 bit counter.


7 Capsules
===============================

The Tock kernel provides two standard
capsules. `capsules::alarm::AlarmDriver` provides a system call driver
for an `Alarm`. `capsules::virtual_alarm` provides a set of
abstractions for virtualizing a single `Alarm` into many.

8 Required Modules
===============================

A chip MUST provide an instance of `Alarm` with a `Frequency` of `Freq32KHz` 
and a `Ticks` of `Ticks32Bits`.

A chip MUST provide an instance of `Time` with a `Frequency` of `Freq32KHz` and
a `Ticks` of `Ticks64Bits`.

A chip SHOULD provide an Alarm with a `Frequency` of `Freq1MHz` and a `Ticks`
of `Ticks32Bits`.


9 Acknowledgements
===============================

The traits and abstractions in this document draw from contributions
and ideas from Patrick Mooney and Guillaume Endignoux as well as
others.


10 Authors' Address
=================================

Amit Levy
amit@amitlevy.com

Philip Levis
409 Gates Hall
Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305
USA
pal@cs.stanford.edu

Guillaume Endignoux

Commit message:

Stated there are capsules for transforming between different Frequency and Tick values.

doc/reference/trd-time.md, after:

Kernel Time HIL
========================================

**TRD:** <br/>
**Working Group:** Kernel<br/>
**Type:** Documentary<br/>
**Status:** Draft <br/>
**Author:** Guillaume Endignoux, Amit Levy and Philip Levis <br/>
**Draft-Created:** Feb 06, 2017<br/>
**Draft-Modified:** March 18, 2020<br/>
**Draft-Version:** 2<br/>
**Draft-Discuss:** tock-dev@googlegroups.com</br>

Abstract
-------------------------------

This document describes the hardware independent layer interface (HIL) for time
in the Tock operating system kernel. It describes the Rust traits and other
definitions for this service as well as the reasoning behind them. This
document is in full compliance with [TRD1].

1 Introduction
===============================

Microcontrollers provide a variety of hardware controllers that keep track of
time. The Tock kernel organizes these various types of controllers into two
broad categories: alarms and timers. Alarms continuously increment a clock and
can fire an event when the clock reaches a specific value. Timers can fire an
event after a certain number of clock tics have elapsed.

The time HIL is in the kernel crate, in module `hil::time`. It provides six
main traits:


  * `kernel::hil::time::Time`: provides an abstraction of a moment in time. It has two associated types. One describes the width and maximum value of a time value. The other specifies the frequency of the ticks of the time value.
  * `kernel::hil::time::Counter`: derives from `Time` and provides an abstraction of a free-running counter that can be started or stopped. A `Counter`'s moment in time is the current value of the counter.
  * `kernel::hil::time::Alarm`: derives from `Time`, and provides an abstraction of being able to receive a callback at a future moment in time. 
  * `kernel::hil::time::Timer`: derives from `Time`, and provides an abstraction of being able to receive a callback at some amount of time in the future, or a series of callbacks at a given period.
  * `kernel::hil::time::OverflowClient`: handles an overflow callback from a `Counter`.
  * `kernel::hil::time::AlarmClient`: handles the callback from an `Alarm`.
  * `kernel::hil::time::TimerClient`: handles the callback from a `Timer`.

In addition, to provide a level of minimal platform independence, a
port of Tock to a given microcontoller is expected to implement
certain instances of these traits. This allows, for example, system
call capsules for alarm callbacks to work across boards and chips.

This document describes these traits, their semantics, and the
instances that a Tock chip is expected to implement.

2 `Time`, `Frequency`, and `Ticks` traits
===============================

The `Time` trait represents a moment in time, which is obtained by
calling `now`.

The trait has two associated types. The first, `Frequency`, is an
implementation of the `Frequency` trait which describes how many ticks
there are in a second. The inverse of the frequency defines the time
interval between two ticks of time.

The second associated type, `Ticks`, defines the width of the time
value. This is an associated type because different microcontrollers
represent time with different bit widths: most Cortex-M
microcontrollers, for example, use 32 bits, while RISC-V uses 64 bits
and the Nordic nRF51822 provides only a 24-bit counter. The `Ticks`
associated type defines this, such that users of the `Time` trait can
know when wraparound will occur.


```rust
pub trait Ticks: Clone + Copy + From<u32> {
    fn into_usize(self) -> usize;
    fn into_u32(self) -> u32;

    fn wrapping_add(self, other: Self) -> Self;
    fn wrapping_sub(self, other: Self) -> Self;

    // Returns whether `when` is in the range of [`start`, `end`), using
    // unsigned arithmetic and considering wraparound. It returns true
    // if, incrementing from start, when will be reached before end.
    // Put another way, it returns (when - start) < (end - start) in
    // unsigned arithmetic.
    fn within_range(start: Self, when: Self, end: Self) -> bool;
    fn max_value() -> Self;
}

pub trait Frequency {
    fn frequency() -> u32; // Represented in Hz
}

pub trait Time {
    type Frequency: Frequency;
    type Ticks: Ticks;

    fn now(&self) -> Self::Ticks;

    // Returns the number of ticks in the provided number of seconds,
    // rounding down any fractions.
    fn ticks_from_seconds(s: u32) -> Self::Ticks;
    
    // Returns the number of ticks in the provided number of milliseconds,
    // rounding down any fractions.
    fn ticks_from_ms(ms: u32) -> Self::Ticks;

    // Returns the number of ticks in the provided number of microseconds,
    // rounding down any fractions.
    fn ticks_from_us(us: u32) -> Self::Ticks;
}
```

Frequency is defined with an [associated type] of the `Time` trait
(`Time::Frequencey`). It MUST implement the `Frequency` trait, which
has a single method, `frequency`. `frequency` returns the frequency in
Hz, e.g. 1MHz is 1000000. Clients can use this to write code that is
independent of the underlying frequency.

An instance of `Time` or derived trait MUST NOT have a `Frequency`
which is greater than its underlying frequency precision.  It must be
able to accurately return every possible value in the range of `Ticks`
without further quantization. It is therefore not allowed to take a
32kHz clock and present it as an instance of `Time` with a frequency
of `Freq16MHz`.

`Frequency` allows a user of `Time` to know the granularity of ticks
and so avoid quantization error when two different times map to the
same time tick. For example, if a user of `Time` needs microsecond
precision, then the associated type can be used to statically check
that is is not put on top of an implementation with 32kHz precision.

The three `ticks_from` methods are helper functions to convert values
in seconds, milliseconds, or microseconds to a number of ticks. These
three methods all round down the result. This means, for example, that
if the `Time` instance has a frequency of 32kHz, calling
`ticks_from_us(20)` returns 0, because a single tick of a 32kHz clock
is 30.5 microseconds.

[associated type]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/associated-types.html


3 `Counter` and `OverflowClient` traits
===============================

The `Counter` trait is the abstraction of a free-running counter that
can be started and stopped. This trait derives from the `Time` trait, so
it has associated `Frequency` and `Tick` types. The `Counter` trait
allows a client to register for callbacks when the counter overflows.

```rust
pub trait OverflowClient {
  fn overflow(&self);
}

pub trait Counter<'a>: Time {
  fn start(&self) -> ReturnCode;
  fn stop(&self) -> ReturnCode;
  fn is_running(&self) -> bool;
  fn set_client(&'a self, &'a dyn OverflowClient);
}
```

The `OverflowClient` trait is separated from the `AlarmClient` trait
because there are cases when software simply wants a free-running
counter to keep track of time, but does not need triggers at a
particular time. For hardware that has a limited number of
compare registers, allocating one of them when the compare itself
isn't needed would be wasteful.

A `Counter` implementation MUST NOT provide a `Frequency` of a higher
resolution than an underlying hardware counter. For example, if the
underlying hardware counter has a frequency of 32kHz, then a `Counter`
cannot say it has a frequency of 1MHz by multiplying the underlying
counter by 32. A `Counter` implementation MAY provide a `Frequency` of
a lower resolution (e.g., by stripping bits).



4 `Alarm` and `AlarmClient` traits
===============================

Instances of the `Alarm` trait track an incrementing clock and can
trigger callbacks when the clock reaches a specific value as well as
when it overflows. The trait is derived from `Time` trait and
therefore has associated `Time::Frequency` and `Ticks` types.

The `AlarmClient` trait handles callbacks from an instance of `Alarm`.
The trait derives from `OverflowClient` and adds an additional callback
denoting that the time specified to the `Alarm` has been reached.

`Alarm` and `Timer` (presented below) differ in their level of
abstraction. An `Alarm` presents the abstraction of receiving a
callback when a point in time is reached or on an overflow. In
contrast, `Timer` allows one to request callbacks at some interval in
the future, either once or periodically. `Alarm` requests a callback
at an absolute moment while `Timer` requests a callback at a point
relative to now.

```rust
pub trait AlarmClient: OverflowClient {
  fn alarm(&self);
}

pub trait Alarm: Time {
  fn set_alarm(&self, now: Self::Ticks, dt: Self::Ticks);
  fn get_alarm(&self) -> Self::Ticks;
  fn disable(&self) -> ReturnCode;
  fn set_client(&'a self, client: &'a dyn AlarmClient);    
}
```

`Alarm` has a `disable` in order to cancel an existing alarm. Calling
`set_alarm` enables an alarm.

The `set_alarm` method takes a `now` and a `dt` parameter to handle
edge cases in which it can be impossible distinguish between alarms
for the very near future and alarms for the very far future. The edge
case occurs when the underlying counter increments past the compare
value between when the call was made and the compare register is
actually set. Because the counter has moved past the intended compare
value, it will have to wrap around before the alarm will
fire. However, one cannot assume that the counter has moved past the
intended compare and issue a callback: the software may have requested
an alarm very far in the future, close to the width of the counter.

Having a `now` and `dt` parameters disambiguates these two
cases. Suppose the current counter value is `current`. If, using
unsigned arithmetic, `(current - now) >= dt` then the callback should
be issued immediately (e.g., with a deferred procedure call).

5 `Timer` and `TimerClient` traits
===============================

The `Timer` trait presents the abstraction of a software timer. The
timer can either be one-shot or periodic with a fixed
interval. `Timer` derives from `Time`, therefore has associated
`Time::Frequency` and `Ticks` types.

The `TimerClient` trait handles callbacks from an instance of `Timer`.
The trait has a single callback, denoting that the timer has fired.

```rust
pub trait TimerClient {
  fn fired(&self);
}

pub trait Timer<'a>: Time {
  fn set_client(&'a self, &'a dyn TimerClient);
  fn oneshot(&self, interval: Self::Ticks) -> Self::Ticks;
  fn repeating(&self, interval: Self::Ticks) -> Self::Ticks;

  fn interval(&self) -> Option<Self::Ticks>;
  fn is_oneshot(&self) -> bool;
  fn is_repeating(&self) -> bool;

  fn time_remaining(&self) -> Option<Self::Ticks>;
  fn is_enabled(&self) -> bool;

  fn cancel(&self) -> ReturnCode;
}
```

The `oneshot` method causes the timer to issue the `TimerClient`'s
`fired` method exactly once when `interval` clock ticks have elapsed.
Calling `oneshot` MUST invalidate and replace any previous calls to
`oneshot` or `repeating`. The method returns the actual number of
ticks in the future that the callback will execute. This value MAY be
greater than `interval` to prevent certain timer race conditions
(e.g., that require a compare be set at least N ticks in the future)
but MUST NOT be less than `interval`.

The `repeating` method causes the timer to call the `Client`'s `fired`
method periodically, every `interval` clock ticks. Calling `oneshot`
MUST invalidate and replace any previous calls to `oneshot` or
`repeat`. The method returns the actual number of ticks in the future
that the first callback will execute. This value MAY be greater than
`interval` to prevent certain timer race conditions (e.g., that
require a compare be set at least N ticks in the future) but MUST NOT
be less than `interval`.


6 `Frequency` and `Ticks` Implementations
=================================

The time HIL provides four standard implementations of `Frequency`:

```rust
pub struct Freq16MHz;
pub struct Freq1MHz;
pub struct Freq32KHz;
pub struct Freq16KHz;
pub struct Freq1KHz;
```

The time HIL provides three standard implementaitons of `Ticks`:

```rust
pub struct Ticks24Bits(u32);
pub struct Ticks32Bits(u32);
pub struct Ticks64Bits(u64);
```

The 24 bits implementation is to support some Nordic Semiconductor
nRF platforms (e.g. nRF52840) that only support a 24 bit counter.


7 Capsules
===============================

The Tock kernel provides four standard capsules:

  * `capsules::alarm::AlarmDriver` provides a system call driver for
    an `Alarm`.
  * `capsules::virtual_alarm` provides a set of
    abstractions for virtualizing a single `Alarm` into many.
  * `capsules::frequency` provides a set of abstractions for
    scaling down from a higher `Frequency` to a lower one.
  * `capsules::ticks` provides a set of abstractions for transforming
    `Counter` instances between different `Tick` widths.


8 Required Modules
===============================

A chip MUST provide an instance of `Alarm` with a `Frequency` of `Freq32KHz` 
and a `Ticks` of `Ticks32Bits`.

A chip MUST provide an instance of `Time` with a `Frequency` of `Freq32KHz` and
a `Ticks` of `Ticks64Bits`.

A chip SHOULD provide an Alarm with a `Frequency` of `Freq1MHz` and a `Ticks`
of `Ticks32Bits`.


9 Acknowledgements
===============================

The traits and abstractions in this document draw from contributions
and ideas from Patrick Mooney and Guillaume Endignoux as well as
others.


10 Authors' Address
=================================

Amit Levy
amit@amitlevy.com

Philip Levis
409 Gates Hall
Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305
USA
pal@cs.stanford.edu

Guillaume Endignoux
