Permissive Binary License

Version 1.0, July 2019

Redistribution.  Redistribution and use in binary form, without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1) Redistributions must reproduce the above copyright notice and the
   following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
   provided with the distribution.

2) Unless to the extent explicitly permitted by law, no reverse
   engineering, decompilation, or disassembly of this software is
   permitted.

3) Redistribution as part of a software development kit must include the
   accompanying file named �DEPENDENCIES� and any dependencies listed in
   that file.

4) Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
   this software without specific prior written permission.

Limited patent license. The copyright holders (and contributors) grant a
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free patent license to
make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise
transfer this software, where such license applies only to those patent
claims licensable by the copyright holders (and contributors) that are
necessarily infringed by this software. This patent license shall not
apply to any combinations that include this software.  No hardware is
licensed hereunder.

If you institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the software
itself infringes your patent(s), then your rights granted under this
license shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

DISCLAIMER. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS." ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.